[MUSIC] Hi and welcome to lecture 14. In this lecture we'll discuss the three
levels of access control in Ruby. We'll talk about the whole idea of
control and access in the first place. As well as how private is
private access in Ruby? So, the idea of access control is as
follows, when designing your class, it's important to think about how
much you want to expose to the world. You want to write your class in
a way that, when something changes, some internal details
change in your class, not everybody outside of your class has
to all of a sudden change everything. You want to keep your presentation,
the internal representation private. That's the idea of encapsulation and it applies to not just Ruby but other
languages, other OO languages as well. On top of that, Ruby also provides
three levels of access control. Public, protected, and private. And we'll see what this means in a minute. So the idea of encapsulation is files. Let's say you have a car class
that maybe has a speed and comfort, which are used to
calculate the rating of a car. And you have a rating method that right
now happens to return the rating, which is an instance variable. But maybe we're wrong, you're gonna incorporate some other
factors how you calculate the rating. So, that's fine because people who
depend on the car class, they're still gonna have this rating method and
to them it doesn't mean anything. It's just a rating method,
which is just a method that they call. And even if internal representation changes on how you calculate
the rating that's okay. It's not going to affect the outside API. So there are two ways you could
specify access control in Ruby. Number one,
you could specify public, protected, or private keywords, and everything
until the next access control keyword will be at that access control level. Now this is in addition to
what I mentioned before, that by default all Ruby
methods are public. So if you don't specify any of these,
your methods are gonna be public. The second way is you could define
the methods regularly without specifying whether they are public,
private, or protected. And then you could have
a comma-separated list of methods using the method symbols to specify whether
they are private, protected or public. So let's see both of these. We have the class on the left
that starts out as private. So, this method, test1, and any other method defined here
will be private until protected. And this method over here, and
all the other methods will be protected. And then you have public, which basically says that any methods
defined here are gonna be public. And you obviously need public here because
otherwise they would be protected. Whereas usually, if you wouldn’t have any
of these private, protected, or public. Or if you would have this method
all the way up before private you wouldn't need any keyword because it
methods by default in Ruby are public. Because the idea is if
you are creating a method you probably want somebody from
outside the class to call the method. The other way to do it is you
define the method regular. And then you say, oh by the way
test1 method that I defined earlier, I want it to be private. And you could do this using a comma
separated list of method names. Now let's talk about what the public,
protected, and private actually means. So, public methods means there's
no access control enforced. Anybody from outside the class, or from
inside the class, can call this method. Protected means, it can be invoked, but only by the objects of a defining class or
its subclasses. Nobody from outside, unless you're
a subclass, can call a protected method. And the third level is really interesting. Private methods cannot be invoked
with an explicit receiver. So you cannot say, for example, so let's
say you create an instance of a class. Let's say call it person1. You cannot say person1.private method. But not only that,
even to say something like self.private method inside
the class itself you cannot do. And there is a minor exception
which we'll see in a minute. So let's see an example of this. Let's say we have a person that
has my age getter and age setter. So to say something like self.my_age, even inside the construct of
a person class, is illegal. You cannot use self or any other
receiver to call a private method. The only exception is
to call an age setter. And the reason is because calling
an age setter, without the receiver, without itself, as we discussed earlier,
when we talked about classes is kind of useless because
the Ruby interpreter would interpret the age
as a local variable. And every time you finish the constructor, the age local variable
would go out of scope. So only meaningful way of calling age
setter, is to call it using self. So therefore, this is an exception, when
you're trying to set a variable value, you are allowed to code self, even if
the age setter is a private method. In summary, public and
private access controls are used the most. Sometimes you'll see protected but most of the time you'll see people just
using public, if a methods a public. Or not using anything because
by default methods a public. Or using private if you don't
want anybody calling the methods. And private methods are very interesting
in that they are not callable from outside or inside the class
with an explicit receiver, and the exception to that is a setter method. A method that's trying to set a value. Those methods I allow to be called
will be receiver as we saw. What's next? Next, we talk about
introduction to unit testing.