[MUSIC] Welcome. So now that we've installed Ruby on Rails,
the question is, which editor or IDE should we be using to edit our
Ruby and Ruby on Rails applications. So, we've got a bunch of choices. Number one there is RubyMine,
and RubyMine is made by JetBrains which incidentally is the same
company that makes Intelli J which an excellent Java idea out there,
and RubyMine is no different. A lot of Rubys prefer using RubyMine. It's a very good IDE. Now it's not free, so you get a 30-day trial to see if you like it and then after
that you have to purchase the license. But, it's an excellent IDE and I encourage you guys to try
it out if you are into IDEs. Another IDE that is out there is Aptana,
which is also another pretty good IDE. I personally never used it, but some Ruby's definitely like
using Aptana Studio 3. Then a lot of Ruby's are not
into IDEs altogether. They use Vim. Vim is an editor which is very light
weight, and it has a lot of plugins that make Ruby and
Rails development easier. But it's not a full blown IDE. But again a lot of do prefer using it. And then there's Sublime Text which
is also not a full blown IDE. It's a text added through
a lot of plugins. But I personally really like using it. And let me show you guys how it works. So when you open up
the Sublime Text editor, you're not gonna have any directories or
folders in there, and the way I got this Rails app in
there was by doing File and then Open. And then picking the folder
that I was trying to open which was my_first_app folder. And this is just a Rails application
that's about courses on Coursera. So the first thing that
we might want to do is, we might want to change the color scheme. If you guys like the white background
instead of a dark background. So for example, let's open up a file
just to see what we're doing here. So, this is the color scheme,
right now, but it's very easy to change a color scheme. And how you would do that is by going to Sublime Text > Preferences and
then Color Scheme. Right now it's in Blackboard color scheme,
but you could easily change it to
something like Mac Classic that flips it to the white background
instead of the other background. So let's go ahead and change it back. A lot of things actually in this
editor are customizable and the way to see which properties
are available for customization, you would look in Preferences and
then Settings Default. And I am demoing this on the Mac but on
the Windows and on Linux which the editor runs on,
these settings are gonna be very similar. So the interesting part is
the settings are not on a GUI panel. That you could just checkbox them. They're actually a JSON file. So you have a key and a value. So for example, you have line numbers. It says line numbers should be true but
we don't see any line numbers and the reason for that is because the line
numbers were overridden by a user file. So if you go on to preferences,
settings, user, you'll see that the user file
has line number as false. But if I go ahead and take them out, and save a file, you could see the line
number show right back up again. Now wouldn't it be nice to see the user
file right next to the default file side by side so that you could actually
know which properties you could edit. And it turns out you could do it
very easily if you go to View. And lay out two columns instead of one. You can see this line here. So you can see that there is
actually two columns here right now. And we could drag one of the files
over to the other column. Now this is our user file and
this is our default file and we could easily add
properties in the user file, overriding the properties in our files,
so for example, numbers, false, save it. Boom, they go away. So let's go back and
put the layout back to single. Okay. The other customizations that you could do
in actually a very similar vein to what we just did was Is for key bindings. So Sublime comes with its own key
bindings which are on by default, and you can override those defaults,
again, by going to preferences, key bindings user, and you can actually
override them with your own key bindings. That you're used to. The next feature I want
to show is Find in Files. So Find in Files,
it's under the find menu, Find in Files. It's Cmd+Shift+F on the Mac. And basically you can try to look for things in all the files that are open, that's the default,
open files and folders. So for example, you know that there is
a variable courses somewhere in there. You're not sure exactly where it is. So you'll type that in,
it gives you results and actually from this point on, you could
actually double click on the results. So for example you double click on courses
here, it opens up a file right away. So. What I like about Sublime is
that it's very lightweight, but at the same time it has a lot of features
that your typical IDEs would have. And actually, speaking of Find in Files,
if you go to Find > Find in Files, the options for how to look for
things you have an option to use regular expressions,
and this is for find and for replace. So you could very easily find and
replace something even using a regular expression in a whole
bunch of files, which is very powerful. You can do it case sensitive obviously, you could look for
a whole world and things like that. Another you'll like about Sublime, this actually blew me away the first time
I saw it, is the Goto anything option. It's Cmd+P on the Mac and
I think it's Ctrl+P in Windows. And basically the idea is you
want to look for a certain file. This is similar to how you'd look for
a file, in Eclipse for example, by doing Ctrl+Shift+R or Cmd+Shift+R. So, you do a Cmd+P which
brings up this dialogue, and you're looking for a file and
you know files called Index something. Oh that's what it is. Now if you noticed, the interesting part is it's not
just telling you what's available. Files are that you might be looking for,
it actually displays the content of a file in the background,
which is pretty amazing. So let's see that again. So you have index, and it's actually displaying the file as you
are typing what you think the file is. And at that point you
can just hit enter and you go straight to that file,
it's pretty cool. Another feature which might not be so
obvious, but it's pretty obvious once you see it once
is that you can actually collapse things. So looking at this you don't think
there's anyway to collapse code. But if you go to the left of the panel you could see that there are these
triangles which actually they only come into existence when
you sort of hover over them. So for example this table element which goes from a open table
tag to a closed table tag. You can click on the triangle and
it's gonna collapse this, so this way you could save some real estate
if you wanna see whole bunch of stuff on the screen at the same time. The other thing you could do in Sublime,
so even though it's just a text editor but it has support for certain,
what are called builders. So for example if you look at another
typical Ruby file and we're not gonna get into what this Ruby file does,but at the
end of it you are printing something out. So if you go to Tools and Build which is Cmd+B or
Ctrl+B, there is automatic support for building or running certain
languages and Ruby's one of them. So when you open up your Whatever file .RB in sublime, you could do Cmd+B or Ctrl+B and it runs a file and
the output gets printed out right here. So you don't have to go
through command line. You could run it directly from the editor. So again, it's a text editor but it has a lot of features built on
top of it that makes it really nice. And this is actually just
scratching the surface because Sublime has many plugins and packages. And there's actually a website called
packagecontrol.io which keeps track of all the and lists a whole bunch
of Sublime plugins out there. We have ones that are trending,
popular and there's stuff like support for
Git, you know. Which basically means you could
download a plugin that would tell you what has changed and things
like that, where support from Markdown syntax of it being able to view
Markdown output in the browser. A whole bunch of plugins that you can add
on to your Sublime basic installations. To make it even better. So those are basically your choices, I personally like Sublime which
is why I showed you how I use it. But we did list a whole
bunch of choices out there. Number one, RubyMine which is really good. Aptana which i've never used but
I hear good things about it. And Vim which a lot of Rubies
will tell you that IDE. Why would you ever want to use an IDE? Just use Vim. And it works for them which is great. And then the one I just showed
you with just the Sublime Text.