[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to this
software installation video for Windows operating system. These are the tools that you will need for
course one, which is Ruby, Rails, Git, Phantomjs and Sublime Text. So the first three, Ruby, Rails and Git
can be installed as one single package by going to railsinstaller.org and
the other two tools that we need can be installed by going to
Phantomjs and the Sublime Text URL. And I'll walk you through these websites
to complete the installation process. So in order to install Ruby, Rails, and Git as a package,
you can go to railsinstaller.org. And if you scroll down, you will see
that you have the options to install for both Windows and Mac. And we will go with Windows, Ruby 2.1. And these are all the software that
are packaged with this download. Which is Ruby, Rails,
Bundler, Git and so on. And, this is the latest
at the time of the video. And then if things change or if you're
downloading this at a later time this might be updated so you will go and
get the latest one. So let's download the Windows
package by clicking on Ruby 2.1. And you will have the option for
saving just like any other install. So click on Save and
then complete the installation process. So once the download is complete,
you will see the executable, and you can install this by just
double clicking on this, and accepting all the defaults and
completing the installation. So I'll just select all the default and this is the default directory
that it will get installed to. And as you can see, you will also
have the option of installing Ruby, Git and so on and Default is selected and
it just select this. If you already have Git or
if you already have other tools, you have the option of unselecting or
unchecking this, but this is the default. So, to complete the installation,
click on Install, and this should install In a directory
called RailsInstaller. So on successful installation,
you should see a directory called C:RailsInstaller,
assuming you selected this as the default. But again you have the option
of installing at any place. And you will see the following
subdirectories or folders underneath Rails Installer. Now, before we test to make sure
our installation went through, we need to make one small update. As you can see, with this installation,
we got Rails 4.1. But what we need for this course is 4.2.3. So you can do a quick update
to get the latest 4.2.3 by doing a gem install rails -v 4.2.3. This should install the latest
that we need for this course. Once the installation is done, you can
always go back and make sure our Git, Ruby, and Rails, is all good to go. So let's check the Git,
to make sure Git is all good. So, we got git 1.9.4,
which is good enough for this course. Next, let's do Ruby and Rails. So as you can see, Ruby is,
2.0 and Rails is 4.2.3. So, we are good to go with Ruby,
Rails and Git. Let's go and install the PhantomJS,
and Sublime Text next. PhantomJS is an extremely simple install. So all you need to do is
go to PhantomJS.org and you will see the option to download. And just click on Download, and just
save it to a directory of your choice. So when you click on the download link,
you have the option for installing for Windows, Mac and Linux. And we'll go with Windows. So it's a zip file, so you can either open
it and drag and drop it to your directory. Or you can simply save and
then unzip the file. So here is the install, so here is
the .zip file so you should be able to just drag and drop this directory
into a directory of your choice. So in my case, I have the zip file that was downloaded
to the drive and dropped in here. So this is where it is
currently installed. You can navigate to the bin directory and that's where you have
PhantomJS.executable now. One important thing is since this
something that you need from any other directory or from command
prompt, in general, you'll have to go and add this to your path. Basically, add the executable or
the bin directory to be part of your environment variable
path so that you will be able to install. You will be able to invoke
this executable anywhere. So let's go and do that next. So let's go and
add the environment variable. So, we need to go and find the pack,
so you can do a search and find your environment variables for your
account, and there it is, that's the path. And you need to edit this. And I already have this, so basically
all you need to do is go to the end of the path variable, and
add a semi colon as you can see here, and copy and
paste the directory of the installation. Right, so we install it here. So, we basically need this directory, C
colon, the installation of the phantomjs. So, you can copy this, and
then paste it all the way at the end. So, that's pretty much all you need. And then do an okay, and
then close the window. And you should be able to open a brand new
command window, and then try the command. Okay, so let's open up a new window. And let's give it a try. And if you type phantomjs-v you
don't have to be in that directory you should be able to see
the installation that you just did. Right, so this is a very important step. And any other environment variable
that you need to add in this course the steps are exactly what I showed
in Windows operating system. You just have to search for edit environment variable,
go to that screen, pick up the path. Go to the end, add a semicolon, and then do the
appropriate changes that you need to do. Finally the last thing we need to do is
install Sublime Text which is a really nice editor, a very simple editor
to use that will be on Rails. And this is something that'll be
used throughout this specialization. Pretty much in most of the course,
or all of the course. So let's go to the website,
sublimetext.com. So this is the URL, sublimetext.com and there is a link on
the top called Download. And again, it's a fairly simple install. So as you can see it supports all of
the different operating systems and depending on your Windows, 32 or 64, you can pick the appropriate and
it's an executable. So just select the EXE of your choice and then you can do a save and run the EXE. So take the directory of your choice, and you should be able to
complete the installation. Once you have successfully installed,
you should be able to launch your editor. So you should be able to find it right
there, Sublime Text, and just bring it up. So that completes all the necessary
tools that we need for this course. Now one final thing we need to do is to
make sure that that Rails installation was all good. And let's try to bring up the Rails and
then go to the URL localhost:3000 just to make sure Rails is all good to go and
we can access the main page. Right?
So let's go and do that. So to test the Rails,
open a command window and type the command as you can see on screen,
rails new test_install. Now all of these commands will be
explained a lot more in depth once you start the course. But for now, just type this command so that you will know whether
the installation was all good to go. It will go and
create a bunch of directories. And as I said, ignore it for now. You will be given a lot more information
on this as you start the course. Right. So once the installation is done,
you will get back the prompt. And let's go into that
directory that we just created. So that directory was called test_install,
so let's go inside that. Now let's type the Rails server. The command is very simple,
it's rails server. So you should see the server
starting up and as you can see, the URL, the default URL is localhost3000. So let's go to the URL and check to
make sure that everything is good. So as you can see,
we can get to the main page. This is the Rails main page. You can also click on the About
your applications environment. This will give you a lot more
BTL on what was installed. So as you can see, it's 423. That's the Ruby and
there will be gems and so on. So this is all good, and this is pretty much all you need
to continue with the course. Work on the examples and
the assignments and all that. So just to wrap up
the installation process, so what you did in this quick lesson
was to install Ruby, Rails, and Git as part of the railsistaller.org. And then we also installed two
additional things that we need, one was the PhantomJS and then the IDE. Although you have the option of using
any other editor of your choice, Sublime Text is highly preferred for
Ruby and Rails. So, that completes this video for
installation on Windows. If you need additional information
on installing on any other operating system like Mac or Linux and so
on, please check out the other videos. Thank you.