[MUSIC] Hi, and welcome to lecture eight. In this lecture,
we’ll discuss Bundler, and how Bundler lets you manage gems
inside your Rails application. So if you go to bundler.io you
will see that Bundler basically provides a consistent environment for
Ruby projects by tracking and installing the exact gems and
versions that are needed. So, it lets you specify gems
from the Rails application and the way you do that is you
specify that inside the Gemfile. And this is the preferred way to manage
gem dependencies in Rails, because Bundler is able to resolve a lot of dependencies
and it tries to make everybody happy. So for example, you have gem 1
that depends on certain other gem with one version and
gem 2 which depends on that same gem. Maybe they're different or
a little bit of a different version. Bundler is gonna try to
make both those gems happy. To use it all you do is you just run
bundle install to install new gems. Or you just do bundle, which is
the same as running bundle install. And if you want to modify version
of an already installed gem, you do bundle update
instead of bundle install. You could also instruct Rails in
the Gemfile to only load certain gems in specific Rails environments. So for
example you do group development and test to tell it these gems are only
gonna be available in development and test environments but
not in production environment. So which version of a gem gets installed? Well, if you don't specify anything,
you get the latest. You could also specify an exact version or an approximate version of the gem
that you wanna be installed. So, for example,
in this case you get the latest. In this case you get an exact version. In this case you get something greater
than 1.0, even if it's version four or five, or whatever the latest is,
passed this version. You can also specify lower and
upper bounds. For example, in this case, you're saying
greater than 1.1, and the less than 2.0. Now, the reason you do this is
that a lot of times when gems or when software in general goes to the next
version they might break certain features. Whereas if they just updating
the version let's say 1.2, 1.3 they're usually not
gonna break the API. And because this is so
common results of this operator which is called the Pessimistic Version Constraint,
which means that you are pessimistic about the next
version not breaking something and therefore you wanna lock in to
only use a specific range of versions which do not
include the next big version. And the way this works, Bundler figures
aside, is that it drops a final digit, and then it increments the digit to
get the upper limit version number. So in this case, it drops one,
in this case, and it increments this to be 2.0. So, basically,
these statements are equivalent. You could even do it this way
by specifying the exact range or you could say, eh, just use
the pessimistic version constraint and the way it figures this out
is it drops the final digit. And then it increments the first digit
to get the upper limit less than that limit which is 2.0. Bundler also loads the gem. It doesn't just download
it from the internet. So as the application starts,
it actually requires that gem and sometimes the name to require is going
to be different from an actual gem name. So, for example,
this what used to be the case of sqlite3. The gem name was called one name, but
when you required, you actually had to require something else,
you could specify that to the Bundler. And the interesting part is that it's so modular that you could even use
a different version of Rails. So let's say you're using version 3 and
then you wanna upgrade to version 4, all you have to do is just specify
different version in your Gemfile and then the run bundle update, and that's gonna
update your Rails to a different version. Now you might have other issues
on upgrading but as far as trick version usage this works
to change your versions. One more things is that the Gemfile.lock
is the file that actually has the exact versions, and that's a file that
gets updated when you run bundle update, or bundle, depending on if it's a new gem
or if you're updating an existing gem. One last thing, bundle exec, sometimes you'll see people running
bundle exec rake, or bundle exec rails. And the reason for
that is that what bundle exec does is that it uses
the executable of a gem. For example, Rails or
Rake that is specified in the Gemfile of a current app to use when
you're running bundle exec. So what I mean by that is that,
let's say you have three or four different versions for, let's say the rake gem
specified, so which one is it gonna use. Well, it might not be so deterministic. So, void to specify an exact version is,
or the version, at least, that you are specifying in
the Gemfile is to use bundle exec, rake a bundle exec rails and
then you know for sure that you're getting
the version that's in the Gemfile. So in summary Bundler
manages gem dependencies and it loads up the gems on
an application startup. What's next? Next we're gonna try to integrate the
HTTParty with Rails since now we know how to do that by using Bundler.